README.md, before:

# Nine Lives: Cat Sudoku 🐱✨

**A Professional Cat-Themed Sudoku Game with Advanced Features**

Built with Rust and Bevy, Nine Lives transforms the classic Sudoku experience with adorable ASCII cat art, professional-grade features, and delightful gameplay. Each number (1-9) is represented by a unique, detailed ASCII kitten design, bringing personality and charm to every puzzle.

> 🎉 **Version 2.0.0**: Now featuring undo/redo, smart hints, theming, keyboard shortcuts, and comprehensive game state management!

## ✨ Features

### 🎮 **Core Gameplay**
- **ASCII Cat Art**: 9 unique, detailed ASCII kitten designs (4-5 lines each)
- **Complete Sudoku Logic**: Full validation, conflict detection, and win conditions  
- **Puzzle Generation**: Randomized puzzles with guaranteed solutions
- **Multiple Difficulties**: Easy (35-40 givens), Medium (30-35), Hard (25-30)
- **Smart Conflict Detection**: Real-time highlighting of rule violations

### ↩️ **Undo/Redo System**
- **Unlimited Undo/Redo**: 100-move history buffer for worry-free experimentation
- **Keyboard Shortcuts**: ⌘Z/⌘⇧Z (Mac) or Ctrl+Z/Ctrl+Shift+Z (PC)
- **Button Controls**: Dedicated undo (⟲) and redo (⟳) buttons
- **Smart History**: Intelligent truncation when making new moves

### 💡 **Advanced Hint System** 
- **Smart Hints**: AI-powered suggestions using complete puzzle solution
- **Limited Resource**: 3 hints per easy puzzle encourages strategic thinking
- **Visual Feedback**: Hint button shows remaining count (💡 2)
- **Placement Assistance**: Hints place correct cats directly on the board

### 🎨 **Visual & Theming**
- **Multi-Theme Support**: Classic, Dark, and High Contrast themes
- **Enhanced Cell Hover**: Row/column/box highlighting on mouse hover
- **Professional UI**: Color-coded buttons with smooth hover transitions
- **Game Progress Display**: Live timer (MM:SS) and move counter
- **Theme-Aware Colors**: All elements adapt to selected theme

### ⌨️ **Accessibility & Controls**
- **Full Keyboard Support**: Complete keyboard navigation and shortcuts
- **High Contrast Mode**: Accessibility option for visual impairments  
- **Responsive Design**: Smooth interactions with visual feedback
- **Cross-Platform**: Native support for macOS, Windows, and Linux

## 🎮 How to Play

### Getting Started
1. **Launch**: Run `cargo run` to start the game
2. **New Game**: Click "New Game" to generate a fresh puzzle
3. **Make Moves**: Click empty cells to cycle through cat options
4. **Follow Rules**: Fill each row, column, and 3x3 box with all 9 different cats
5. **Win**: Complete the puzzle to see the celebration!

### Advanced Features
- **Undo/Redo**: Use buttons or keyboard shortcuts (⌘Z/⌘⇧Z) to undo moves
- **Get Hints**: Click the hint button (💡) for strategic assistance (limited per game)
- **Track Progress**: Monitor your elapsed time and move count
- **Visual Aids**: Hover over cells to highlight related rows, columns, and boxes

## 🐱 ASCII Cat Gallery

Each number is represented by a unique ASCII cat with its own personality:

```
 Cat #1:     Cat #2:      Cat #3:
   /\_/\      /\____/\       /\_/\ 
  ( o.o )   (  o o o  )    ( =w= )
  >  ^  <   (  > 2 <  )    (  3  )
   / | \     \__|__|_/      /  |  \
  (  1  )                 <__^__^__>

 Cat #4:     Cat #5:      Cat #6:
   /\_/\       /\_/\        /\_/\ 
  ( o.o )    ( ^_^ )     ( o.o )
  /| 4 |\    (  5  )     (  6  )
  \_   _/    /  |  \     /  |  \
    \_/     <__|__|__>    \__^__/

 Cat #7:     Cat #8:      Cat #9:
   /\_/\       /\_/\        /\_/\ 
  ( -.- )    ( >w< )     ( o_o )
  (  7  )    (  8  )     (  9  )
  /  |  \    /  |  \     /  |  \
 <__v__v__>   \__|__/    <__*__*__>
```

Each kitten has its own unique expression and design details!

## 🎮 Controls

### Mouse Controls
- **Left Click**: Click empty cells to cycle through cat options
- **Button Clicks**: New Game, Clear Board, Undo, Redo, Hint buttons
- **Hover Effects**: Cells highlight related rows/columns/boxes on hover
- **Visual Feedback**: All interactive elements provide hover feedback

### Keyboard Shortcuts
- **⌘Z** (Mac) or **Ctrl+Z** (PC): Undo last move
- **⌘⇧Z** (Mac) or **Ctrl+⇧Z** (PC): Redo move 
- **⌘Y** (Mac) or **Ctrl+Y** (PC): Alternative redo shortcut

### Game Controls
- **New Game**: Generate fresh puzzle (resets timer, moves, hints)
- **Clear Board**: Remove all player entries (keeps given numbers)
- **Undo (⟲)**: Reverse last move (up to 100 moves)
- **Redo (⟳)**: Reapply undone move
- **Hint (💡)**: Get AI assistance (limited per game)

## 🏗️ Technical Architecture

### Technology Stack
- **Engine**: Bevy 0.16.1 (Rust game engine)
- **Language**: Rust (100% safe, fast, and reliable)
- **Platform**: Cross-platform desktop (macOS/Windows/Linux)
- **UI Framework**: Bevy's native UI system with custom components
- **Architecture**: Clean MVC pattern with separate crates

### Project Structure
```
nine_lives/
├── nine_lives_core/     # 🧠 Pure game logic (UI-agnostic)
├── nine_lives_ui/       # 🎨 Bevy UI components and theming
├── nine_lives_controller/ # 🎮 Event handling and orchestration  
└── tests/               # 🧪 Comprehensive integration tests
```

### Key Features
- **MVC Architecture**: Clean separation of concerns
- **Resource-Based State**: Efficient Bevy ECS pattern
- **Type Safety**: Strong typing prevents common errors
- **Memory Safe**: Rust's ownership system prevents memory issues
- **Performance**: Optimized systems with change detection
- **Testability**: 31+ tests covering all functionality

## 🛠️ Development

### Quick Start
```bash
# Clone and run
cd nine_lives
cargo run

# Run tests
cargo test

# Build optimized release
cargo build --release
```

### Development Commands
```bash
# Run all tests across workspace
cargo test

# Run tests for specific crate  
cargo test -p nine_lives_core
cargo test -p nine_lives_ui
cargo test -p nine_lives_controller

# Run integration tests
cargo test --test smoke

# Check code without building
cargo check

# Run with console output
cargo test -- --nocapture
```

### Architecture Guidelines
- **Core**: Pure game logic, no UI dependencies
- **UI**: Bevy-specific presentation layer
- **Controller**: Event handling and orchestration
- **Dependencies**: Controller → UI → Core (unidirectional)

See `WARP.md` for detailed development guidance.

## 🚀 Version 2.0.0 Highlights

✅ **Just Implemented:**
- ↩️ **Complete Undo/Redo System** with keyboard shortcuts
- 💡 **Smart Hint System** with AI-powered suggestions
- 🎨 **Multi-Theme Support** (Classic, Dark, High Contrast)
- ⏱️ **Live Timer & Move Counter** for progress tracking
- 🎯 **Enhanced Visual Effects** with row/column/box highlighting
- ⌨️ **Full Keyboard Support** with platform-specific shortcuts
- 🧪 **Comprehensive Testing** with 31+ tests
- 🏗️ **Professional MVC Architecture** for maintainability

## 🎯 Future Roadmap

### 💾 **Persistence Layer** (Next Priority)
- Save/load game progress
- Settings persistence (theme, preferences)
- Statistics tracking (games played, win rate, best times)
- Multiple save slots

### 🎮 **Enhanced Puzzle Generation**
- Dancing Links solver for uniqueness validation
- Configurable generation (seed, difficulty)
- Performance benchmarks (<100ms generation)

### 🎵 **Audio & Polish**
- Sound effects (meows, purrs, success chimes)
- Background music options
- Animation system with tweening
- Particle effects for celebrations

### 📱 **Platform Expansion**
- Web assembly (WASM) build for browsers
- Mobile touch controls
- iOS/Android native builds

## 🏆 Awards & Recognition

- 🎖️ **Clean Architecture**: Exemplary MVC implementation in Rust
- 🧪 **Testing Excellence**: Comprehensive test coverage (31+ tests)
- 🎨 **User Experience**: Professional-grade UI with accessibility features  
- 🛡️ **Type Safety**: 100% safe Rust code with no unsafe blocks
- 📚 **Documentation**: Extensive inline docs and architectural guides

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions welcome! Please see the architectural guidelines in `design/api_analysis.md` and follow the MVC pattern. All new features should include comprehensive tests.

## 📄 License

MIT License - Feel free to use this code for learning and personal projects!

---

**Enjoy playing Nine Lives: Cat Sudoku! 🐱✨**

*A delightful blend of classic puzzle gameplay, modern software engineering, and feline charm.*

Commit message:

docs: consolidate and reorganize into structured docs/ directory
- Move design/ files to docs/architecture/ with better names
- Consolidate ROADMAP and progress docs in docs/changelog/
- Create comprehensive docs/development/ guides
- Add docs/README.md as central documentation hub
- Update root README.md with documentation section and fix broken links
- Add cross-references between all documentation files
- Update roadmap to reflect v2.0.0 completion and future plans

All documentation now follows consistent structure with:
- Clear introductions and context
- Cross-links using relative paths
- Updated status reflecting current v2.0.0 state
- Future-focused roadmap for next development phases

README.md, after:

# Nine Lives: Cat Sudoku 🐱✨

**A Professional Cat-Themed Sudoku Game with Advanced Features**

Built with Rust and Bevy, Nine Lives transforms the classic Sudoku experience with adorable ASCII cat art, professional-grade features, and delightful gameplay. Each number (1-9) is represented by a unique, detailed ASCII kitten design, bringing personality and charm to every puzzle.

> 🎉 **Version 2.0.0**: Now featuring undo/redo, smart hints, theming, keyboard shortcuts, and comprehensive game state management!

## ✨ Features

### 🎮 **Core Gameplay**
- **ASCII Cat Art**: 9 unique, detailed ASCII kitten designs (4-5 lines each)
- **Complete Sudoku Logic**: Full validation, conflict detection, and win conditions  
- **Puzzle Generation**: Randomized puzzles with guaranteed solutions
- **Multiple Difficulties**: Easy (35-40 givens), Medium (30-35), Hard (25-30)
- **Smart Conflict Detection**: Real-time highlighting of rule violations

### ↩️ **Undo/Redo System**
- **Unlimited Undo/Redo**: 100-move history buffer for worry-free experimentation
- **Keyboard Shortcuts**: ⌘Z/⌘⇧Z (Mac) or Ctrl+Z/Ctrl+Shift+Z (PC)
- **Button Controls**: Dedicated undo (⟲) and redo (⟳) buttons
- **Smart History**: Intelligent truncation when making new moves

### 💡 **Advanced Hint System** 
- **Smart Hints**: AI-powered suggestions using complete puzzle solution
- **Limited Resource**: 3 hints per easy puzzle encourages strategic thinking
- **Visual Feedback**: Hint button shows remaining count (💡 2)
- **Placement Assistance**: Hints place correct cats directly on the board

### 🎨 **Visual & Theming**
- **Multi-Theme Support**: Classic, Dark, and High Contrast themes
- **Enhanced Cell Hover**: Row/column/box highlighting on mouse hover
- **Professional UI**: Color-coded buttons with smooth hover transitions
- **Game Progress Display**: Live timer (MM:SS) and move counter
- **Theme-Aware Colors**: All elements adapt to selected theme

### ⌨️ **Accessibility & Controls**
- **Full Keyboard Support**: Complete keyboard navigation and shortcuts
- **High Contrast Mode**: Accessibility option for visual impairments  
- **Responsive Design**: Smooth interactions with visual feedback
- **Cross-Platform**: Native support for macOS, Windows, and Linux

## 🎮 How to Play

### Getting Started
1. **Launch**: Run `cargo run` to start the game
2. **New Game**: Click "New Game" to generate a fresh puzzle
3. **Make Moves**: Click empty cells to cycle through cat options
4. **Follow Rules**: Fill each row, column, and 3x3 box with all 9 different cats
5. **Win**: Complete the puzzle to see the celebration!

### Advanced Features
- **Undo/Redo**: Use buttons or keyboard shortcuts (⌘Z/⌘⇧Z) to undo moves
- **Get Hints**: Click the hint button (💡) for strategic assistance (limited per game)
- **Track Progress**: Monitor your elapsed time and move count
- **Visual Aids**: Hover over cells to highlight related rows, columns, and boxes

## 🐱 ASCII Cat Gallery

Each number is represented by a unique ASCII cat with its own personality:

```
 Cat #1:     Cat #2:      Cat #3:
   /\_/\      /\____/\       /\_/\ 
  ( o.o )   (  o o o  )    ( =w= )
  >  ^  <   (  > 2 <  )    (  3  )
   / | \     \__|__|_/      /  |  \
  (  1  )                 <__^__^__>

 Cat #4:     Cat #5:      Cat #6:
   /\_/\       /\_/\        /\_/\ 
  ( o.o )    ( ^_^ )     ( o.o )
  /| 4 |\    (  5  )     (  6  )
  \_   _/    /  |  \     /  |  \
    \_/     <__|__|__>    \__^__/

 Cat #7:     Cat #8:      Cat #9:
   /\_/\       /\_/\        /\_/\ 
  ( -.- )    ( >w< )     ( o_o )
  (  7  )    (  8  )     (  9  )
  /  |  \    /  |  \     /  |  \
 <__v__v__>   \__|__/    <__*__*__>
```

Each kitten has its own unique expression and design details!

## 🎮 Controls

### Mouse Controls
- **Left Click**: Click empty cells to cycle through cat options
- **Button Clicks**: New Game, Clear Board, Undo, Redo, Hint buttons
- **Hover Effects**: Cells highlight related rows/columns/boxes on hover
- **Visual Feedback**: All interactive elements provide hover feedback

### Keyboard Shortcuts
- **⌘Z** (Mac) or **Ctrl+Z** (PC): Undo last move
- **⌘⇧Z** (Mac) or **Ctrl+⇧Z** (PC): Redo move 
- **⌘Y** (Mac) or **Ctrl+Y** (PC): Alternative redo shortcut

### Game Controls
- **New Game**: Generate fresh puzzle (resets timer, moves, hints)
- **Clear Board**: Remove all player entries (keeps given numbers)
- **Undo (⟲)**: Reverse last move (up to 100 moves)
- **Redo (⟳)**: Reapply undone move
- **Hint (💡)**: Get AI assistance (limited per game)

## 🏗️ Technical Architecture

### Technology Stack
- **Engine**: Bevy 0.16.1 (Rust game engine)
- **Language**: Rust (100% safe, fast, and reliable)
- **Platform**: Cross-platform desktop (macOS/Windows/Linux)
- **UI Framework**: Bevy's native UI system with custom components
- **Architecture**: Clean MVC pattern with separate crates

### Project Structure
```
nine_lives/
├── nine_lives_core/     # 🧠 Pure game logic (UI-agnostic)
├── nine_lives_ui/       # 🎨 Bevy UI components and theming
├── nine_lives_controller/ # 🎮 Event handling and orchestration  
└── tests/               # 🧪 Comprehensive integration tests
```

### Key Features
- **MVC Architecture**: Clean separation of concerns
- **Resource-Based State**: Efficient Bevy ECS pattern
- **Type Safety**: Strong typing prevents common errors
- **Memory Safe**: Rust's ownership system prevents memory issues
- **Performance**: Optimized systems with change detection
- **Testability**: 31+ tests covering all functionality

## 🛠️ Development

### Quick Start
```bash
# Clone and run
cd nine_lives
cargo run

# Run tests
cargo test

# Build optimized release
cargo build --release
```

### Development Commands
```bash
# Run all tests across workspace
cargo test

# Run tests for specific crate  
cargo test -p nine_lives_core
cargo test -p nine_lives_ui
cargo test -p nine_lives_controller

# Run integration tests
cargo test --test smoke

# Check code without building
cargo check

# Run with console output
cargo test -- --nocapture
```

### Architecture Guidelines
- **Core**: Pure game logic, no UI dependencies
- **UI**: Bevy-specific presentation layer
- **Controller**: Event handling and orchestration
- **Dependencies**: Controller → UI → Core (unidirectional)

## 📚 Documentation

**Quick Links:**
- **[📖 Complete Documentation](docs/README.md)** - Comprehensive documentation hub
- **[🏗️ Architecture Guide](docs/architecture/mvc_overview.md)** - MVC implementation details  
- **[🛠️ Development Guide](docs/development/guide.md)** - Commands and workflows
- **[🧪 Testing Strategy](docs/development/testing.md)** - Testing approaches
- **[🎨 UX Specification](docs/architecture/ux_specification.md)** - User experience design
- **[🗺️ Future Roadmap](docs/changelog/roadmap.md)** - Planned enhancements
- **[⚙️ WARP.md](WARP.md)** - Warp.dev development guidance

## 🚀 Version 2.0.0 Highlights

✅ **Just Implemented:**
- ↩️ **Complete Undo/Redo System** with keyboard shortcuts
- 💡 **Smart Hint System** with AI-powered suggestions
- 🎨 **Multi-Theme Support** (Classic, Dark, High Contrast)
- ⏱️ **Live Timer & Move Counter** for progress tracking
- 🎯 **Enhanced Visual Effects** with row/column/box highlighting
- ⌨️ **Full Keyboard Support** with platform-specific shortcuts
- 🧪 **Comprehensive Testing** with 31+ tests
- 🏗️ **Professional MVC Architecture** for maintainability

## 🎯 Future Roadmap

### 💾 **Persistence Layer** (Next Priority)
- Save/load game progress
- Settings persistence (theme, preferences)
- Statistics tracking (games played, win rate, best times)
- Multiple save slots

### 🎮 **Enhanced Puzzle Generation**
- Dancing Links solver for uniqueness validation
- Configurable generation (seed, difficulty)
- Performance benchmarks (<100ms generation)

### 🎵 **Audio & Polish**
- Sound effects (meows, purrs, success chimes)
- Background music options
- Animation system with tweening
- Particle effects for celebrations

### 📱 **Platform Expansion**
- Web assembly (WASM) build for browsers
- Mobile touch controls
- iOS/Android native builds

## 🏆 Awards & Recognition

- 🎖️ **Clean Architecture**: Exemplary MVC implementation in Rust
- 🧪 **Testing Excellence**: Comprehensive test coverage (31+ tests)
- 🎨 **User Experience**: Professional-grade UI with accessibility features  
- 🛡️ **Type Safety**: 100% safe Rust code with no unsafe blocks
- 📚 **Documentation**: Extensive inline docs and architectural guides

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions welcome! Please see the [architectural guidelines](docs/architecture/mvc_overview.md) and [development guide](docs/development/guide.md), and follow the MVC pattern. All new features should include comprehensive tests.

### Getting Started
1. Read the [Architecture Overview](docs/architecture/mvc_overview.md) to understand the codebase structure
2. Follow the [Development Guide](docs/development/guide.md) for setup and workflow
3. Review the [Testing Strategy](docs/development/testing.md) for testing requirements
4. Check the [Future Roadmap](docs/changelog/roadmap.md) for planned features

## 📄 License

MIT License - Feel free to use this code for learning and personal projects!

---

**Enjoy playing Nine Lives: Cat Sudoku! 🐱✨**

*A delightful blend of classic puzzle gameplay, modern software engineering, and feline charm.*
